draft rationale for uTP spec (#118)
ethereum/portal-network-specs: discv5-utp.md

The Discovery v5 protocol provides a simple and extensible UDP based protocol with robust encryption and resistance to deep packet inspection.  The use of UDP however imposes a tight limit on packet sizes. [Sub-protocols](https://github.com/ethereum/devp2p/blob/master/discv5/discv5-wire.md#talkreq-request-0x05) which wish to implement functionality that requires transmission of data that exceeds this packet size are forced to implement their own solutions for splitting these payloads across multiple UDP packets.  Packet loss makes this type of solution fragile.  A generic solution that can be reused across different Discovery v5 sub-protocols will improve the overall security and robustness of sub-protocols.

## Basic Goals

> **1.1 Offer a reliable data transfer mechanism for serving data**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**1.1 Offer a generic protocol for nodes to transfer data payloads that exceed the UDP packet size.**
```

Reviewer 2: Is having reliable data transfer not a motivation for uTP? So if theoretically all the data payloads could fit into the UDP packet size, then we wouldn't need uTP? I was under the impression that we need reliable data transfer since we wouldn't like to lose any content along the way.

> **1.2 Have a consistent RDT mechanism across all discv5 sub-protocols**

Reviewer: What does RDT mean?

Reviewer 2: It's my abbreviation for reliable data transfer but I can change that. But I suppose I can take this point out since I think your revision to 1.1 sums it all up

However, for other message pairs such as `FindContent/Content` and `Offer/Accept`, a reliable data transfer mechanism is desirable, since these messages involve sending a stream of data over the network, and the complete transfer of requested content is necessary for a robust network.

Additionally, it is likely that the data sent will take up more than 1 UDP packet, and thus must be broken up into a stream of UDP packets. If each sub-network has to implement their own solution for splitting up packets, this leads to loss of interoperability among other things like having to redefine a solution for each subprotocol.

These two problems—a lack of reliable data transfer and the absence of a generic solution for splitting up data—can be solved by introducing a **protocol offering reliable data transfer** that will be used by all sub-networks when sending data.

> A simple solution is just using TCP. However, since we are building on top of discv5, we cannot do this, as we would have two transport protocols. This leads to many complications, for example, TCP would expect to deliver it's payload to the specified port, but the sub-networks are not applications listening on separate ports.

Reviewer: I think this can be simplified to only the part about wanting portal clients to be able to operate on a single UDP port.
